<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents** *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [1.3 - Exploring HCI](#13---exploring-hci)
  - [Technologies](#technologies)
  - [Ideas](#ideas)
  - [Domains](#domains)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

# 1.3 - Exploring HCI

Three areas:

1. Technologies—new technologies that power new and interesting user interactions
2. Domains - pre-existing areas that might have a lot of potential for exploring to be disrupted by
   new technologies
3. Ideas—theories about the way people interact with interfaces

## Technologies

1. Virtual Reality—replace real world stimuli with own input. 
commerce, tourism, art, education,
   video games
2. Augmented Reality—complements what you see in the real world, doesn't just replace them.
3. Ubiquitous Computing—IoT. computers are everywhere. wearable technologies.
4. Robots—how to ensure robots don't harm humans. how to deal with loss of human work.
5. Mobile-mobile first world.
users are distracted, less screen real estate, hard to do some kind
   of input.

## Ideas

1. Context-Sensitive Computing - computers must be aware of context (different Google Maps and
   spotify views when driving).
2. Gesture-based interaction—computers should interpret and understand gestures.
3. pen/touch based—used for art
4. information visualization - with so much data, we need a way to understand it. computers let us
    represent data in complex ways.
5. CSCW—Computer support cooperative work - computers to support people working together.
   same/different times/places.
6. Social Computing— emojis, for instance, wikipedia

## Domains

1. People with disabilities—disabilities, aging, injuries
2. Education—should things always be as easy as possible?
need some learning experiences at times.
   limit and focus cognitive load.
3. Healthcare -vr, wearable devices, context-sensitive computing. vr for therapy
4. Security - need security measures that are usable, so people use it. make actions easier to
   conform.
5. Games—logical mapping between actions/effects. power of feedback cycles
